docs/dive-in/2024/01/2024-01-08-model-database.md, before:

# Schema

```mermaid
---
title: Airneis database model
---

classDiagram

Categories <|-- Products
Carts <|-- Status
Products <|-- Carts
Users <|-- Addresses
Users <|-- Carts
Carts <|-- CartsProducts
Products <|-- CartsProducts
Products <|-- ProductImages
Materials <|-- ProductsMaterials
Products <|-- ProductsMaterials

class Users {
    id number
    fullName text notNull
    email text unique notNull
    isAdmin boolean default false notNull
    isActive boolean default false notNull
}

class Categories {
    id number notNull
    name text notNull
    thumbnailUrl text notNull
    slug text unique notNull
    orderOfDisplay number notNull
}

class Products {
    id number notNull
    name text notNull
    slug unique notNull
    categoryId number notNull
    price number notNull
    description text notNull
    thumbnailUrl text notNull
    outOfStock boolean default false notNull
    isHighlanderOfTheMoment boolean default false notNull
}

class ProductImages {
    id number notNull
    productId number notNull
    imageUrl text notNull
}

class Materials{
    id number notNull
    name text notNull
}

class ProductsMaterials {
    id number notNull
    productId number notNull
    materialId number notNull
}

class Addresses {
    id number notNull
    userId number notNull
    address text notNull
    address2 text
    city text notNull
    state text notNull
    zipCode text notNull
    country text notNull
    firstName text notNull
    lastName text notNull
    phoneNumber text notNull
    comment text
}

class Carts {
    id number notNull
    userId number notNull
    statusId number notNull
    shippingAddressId number notNull
    billingAddressId number notNull
    finalized_at date notNull
}

class Status {
    id number notNull
    name text notNull
    isOrder boolean notNull
}

class CartsProducts {
    id number notNull
    productId number notNull
    cartId number notNull
    quantity number notNull
}

class Contact {
    id number notNull
    email text notNull
    subject text notNull
    message text notNull
}

```

# Explanation

## Users

This class represents the user whether he is admin or not.
We ask for his email and phone number to be able to contact him for commercials offers and for updates on his orders.

## Categories

Each category has a name, a thumbnail and a slug this slug should be the category's name in lowercase and if the category is in multiple words,each space should be replace by a dash .
The slug should be unique as we will use it in the urls to identify specific category.

## Products

As for the category each product will have a slug that follows the same rules as the category's slug.
The description is mandatory as the risk to create confusion for the client is too high without description.
ThumbnailUrl is the url of the image that will be displayed on the category page.

## ProductImages

This represents the images of the product that will be displayed on product page in carousell.

## Carts

This table will represent both carts and orders.
The status will differentiate between the two.

## CartsProducts

This table links the products and the carts.
When a user add a product to his cart, we will create a new row in this table.

## Status

The status represents the lifecycle of the cart.
The isOrder field says if the cart is an order or not.
If it's an order it means that it has been paid and that it will be delivered.

## Addresses

Can be both shipping or billing address.
The comment is optional and can be used to give more information about the address for the delivery person.
The zipCode is a string because some countries have letters in their zipCode.

# Contact

This table represents the contact form.
The content of this table will be displayed in backoffice.

Commit message:

doc:Corrected missing not null + set ids type to increments
Signed-off-by: Barnabé PILLIAUDIN <barnabe.pilliaudin@gmail.com>

docs/dive-in/2024/01/2024-01-08-model-database.md, after:

# Schema

```mermaid
---
title: Airneis database model
---

classDiagram

Categories <|-- Products
Carts <|-- Status
Products <|-- Carts
Users <|-- Addresses
Users <|-- Carts
Carts <|-- CartsProducts
Products <|-- CartsProducts
Products <|-- ProductImages
Materials <|-- ProductsMaterials
Products <|-- ProductsMaterials

class Users {
    id increments notNull
    fullName text notNull
    email text unique notNull
    isAdmin boolean default false notNull
    isActive boolean default false notNull
}

class Categories {
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
    thumbnailUrl text notNull
    slug text unique notNull
    orderOfDisplay number notNull
}

class Products {
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
    slug unique notNull
    categoryId number notNull
    price number notNull
    description text notNull
    thumbnailUrl text notNull
    outOfStock boolean default false notNull
    isHighlanderOfTheMoment boolean default false notNull
}

class ProductImages {
    id increments notNull
    productId number notNull
    imageUrl text notNull
}

class Materials{
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
}

class ProductsMaterials {
    id increments notNull
    productId number notNull
    materialId number notNull
}

class Addresses {
    id increments notNull
    userId number notNull
    address text notNull
    address2 text
    city text notNull
    state text notNull
    zipCode text notNull
    country text notNull
    firstName text notNull
    lastName text notNull
    phoneNumber text notNull
    comment text
}

class Carts {
    id increments notNull
    userId number notNull
    statusId number notNull
    shippingAddressId number notNull
    billingAddressId number notNull
    finalized_at date notNull
}

class Status {
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
    isOrder boolean notNull
}

class CartsProducts {
    id increments notNull
    productId number notNull
    cartId number notNull
    quantity number notNull
}

class Contact {
    id increments notNull
    email text notNull
    subject text notNull
    message text notNull
}

```

# Explanation

## Users

This class represents the user whether he is admin or not.
We ask for his email and phone number to be able to contact him for commercials offers and for updates on his orders.

## Categories

Each category has a name, a thumbnail and a slug this slug should be the category's name in lowercase and if the category is in multiple words,each space should be replace by a dash .
The slug should be unique as we will use it in the urls to identify specific category.

## Products

As for the category each product will have a slug that follows the same rules as the category's slug.
The description is mandatory as the risk to create confusion for the client is too high without description.
ThumbnailUrl is the url of the image that will be displayed on the category page.

## ProductImages

This represents the images of the product that will be displayed on product page in carousell.

## Carts

This table will represent both carts and orders.
The status will differentiate between the two.

## CartsProducts

This table links the products and the carts.
When a user add a product to his cart, we will create a new row in this table.

## Status

The status represents the lifecycle of the cart.
The isOrder field says if the cart is an order or not.
If it's an order it means that it has been paid and that it will be delivered.

## Addresses

Can be both shipping or billing address.
The comment is optional and can be used to give more information about the address for the delivery person.
The zipCode is a string because some countries have letters in their zipCode.

# Contact

This table represents the contact form.
The content of this table will be displayed in backoffice.
