# Store data

- Author: Magali Deslous-Paoli
- Date : 2024-02-02

## Summary

Store our data in a shared DB

## Context

We will need to store our data into a shared database, accessible from our prod deployment. We do not need a lot of storage, but we do need simplicity and availability. 


## Solution

### NeonDB

Neon is an open source serverless Postgres with a free plan available. The stateless database runs on Kubernetes, allowing it to scale on demand. It includes some useful features such as the possibility of creating branches of our dabatase.

Neon free tier plan allows:

- 10 branches
- 3GiB per branch
- 100h hour of Active time per month

#### Branches

Branches in Neon works mostly the same as in Git, except that branches cannot be merged (yet!). 

We could have:
- production: our primary branch, always available even if Active time is consumed. This should never be touched for test purpose.
- integration: as close as possible as production, to run our tests before merging, when our code is ready.
- dev: to test freely during development phase.


Should this solution proves itself too time consuming for our limited Active time, we could go back to testing on our local db, which is Postgres as well, during dev phase, and only move on to test in the integration environment when ready.

It should be enough for our needs, especially considering that when all our Active time is consumed, only non-primary branches are suspended, while our primary branch remains available. In our case, prod would always be available, only integration and dev branches could be restricted.

#### How to authenticate:

When creating a Neon DB, it provides you with a classic connection string such as:

```
postgresql://neon.rejoin138:0Ydy7spFeJCr@ep-polished-poetry-a2pjwv5m.eu-central-1.aws.neon.tech/test?sslmode=require
```

We could then store our password in our Vault to connect in a secure manner.

### How connect to our App:

Neon provides useful guides for different langages and framework, including Go.

The following exemple is offered:

```
package main

import (
    "database/sql"
    "fmt"

    _ "github.com/lib/pq"
)

func main() {
    connStr := "postgres://[user]:[password]@[neon_hostname]/[dbname]?sslmode=require"
    db, err := sql.Open("postgres", connStr)
    if err != nil {
        panic(err)
    }
    defer db.Close()

    var version string
    if err := db.QueryRow("select version()").Scan(&version); err != nil {
        panic(err)
    }

    fmt.Printf("version=%s\n", version)
}
```
