docs/database/readme.md, before:

# Schema

```mermaid
---
title: Airneis database model
---

classDiagram

Categories "*" <|-- "1" Products
Carts <|-- Status
Products <|-- Carts
Users <|-- Addresses
Users <|-- Carts
Carts <|-- CartsProducts
Products <|-- CartsProducts
Products <|-- ProductImages
Materials <|-- ProductsMaterials
Products <|-- ProductsMaterials

class Users {
    id increments notNull
    firstName text notNull
    lastName text notNull
    email text unique notNull
    passwordHash text notNull
    passwordSalt text notNull
    isAdmin boolean default false notNull
    isActive boolean default false notNull
}

class Categories {
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
    thumbnailUrl text notNull
    slug text unique notNull
    orderOfDisplay number notNull
}

class Products {
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
    slug unique notNull
    categoryId number notNull
    price number notNull
    description text notNull
    thumbnailUrl text notNull
    outOfStock boolean default false notNull
    isHighlanderOfTheMoment boolean default false notNull
}

class ProductImages {
    id increments notNull
    productId number notNull
    imageUrl text notNull
}

class Materials{
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
}

class ProductsMaterials {
    id increments notNull
    productId number notNull
    materialId number notNull
}

class Addresses {
    id increments notNull
    userId number notNull
    address text notNull
    address2 text
    city text notNull
    state text notNull
    zipCode text notNull
    country text notNull
    firstName text notNull
    lastName text notNull
    phoneNumber text notNull
    comment text
}

class Carts {
    id increments notNull
    userId number notNull
    statusId number notNull
    shippingAddressId number notNull
    billingAddressId number notNull
    finalized_at date notNull
}

class Status {
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
    isOrder boolean notNull
}

class CartsProducts {
    id increments notNull
    productId number notNull
    cartId number notNull
    quantity number notNull
}

class Contact {
    id increments notNull
    senderEmail text notNull
    recipientEmail text notNull
    subject text notNull
    message text notNull
}

```

# Explanation

## Users

This class represents the user whether he is admin or not.
We ask for his email and phone number to be able to contact him for commercials offers and for updates on his orders.
The email will also be the logg in field
For more safety we the password is hashed and we have one salt per user


## Categories

Each category has a `name`, a `thumbnail` and a `slug` this slug should be the category's name in lowercase and if the category is in multiple words,each space should be replaced by a dash .
The `slug` should be unique as we will use it in the urls to identify specific `category`.
`orderOfDisplay` represents the order in which the categories will be displayed on home page as it must be configurable in back office

## Products

As for the category each product will have a slug that follows the same rules as the category's slug.
The `description` is mandatory as the risk to create confusion for the client is too high without description.
`ThumbnailUrl` is the url of the image that will be displayed on the category page.

## ProductImages

This represents the images of the product that will be displayed on product page in carousel.

## Materials

As we have to be able to filter products per material we store it into database to make the filtering easier.

## ProductsMaterials

As it's a many relation we have to create a link table between products and materials

## Carts

This table will represent both carts and orders.
The `status` will differentiate between the two.

## CartsProducts

This table links the products and the carts.
When a user add a product to his cart, we will create a new row in this table.
As it's a one to many between cart and products we have to create a link table.

## Status

The status represents the lifecycle of the cart.
The `isOrder` field says if the cart is an order or not.
If it's an order it means that it has been paid and that it will be delivered.

## Addresses

Can be both shipping or billing address.
The `comment` is optional and can be used to give more information about the address for the delivery person.
The `zipCode` is a string because some countries have letters in their zipCode.

# Contact

This table represents the contact form.
The content of this table will be displayed in backoffice.
The `senderEmail` represent the email of the people who write to us
The `recipientEmail` email represents the email of our company as we may send ourselves an email to keep another track of every contacts

Commit message:

Airneis 43:  Database migration (#47)
* feature/AIRENEIS-43: Created the structs of the model

* Add config for database migration

* AIRNEIS-43: Update env vars for database

* AIRNEIS-43: Add DB_URI, Update config files, refactor errors and update coding practices

* Fix errors

* AIRNEIS-43: Place database in dev containers only

* Update product model

Co-authored-by: Ky_Dev25 <96177260+KyDev25@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update back/config/db.go

Co-authored-by: Magali-D <137942699+Magali-D@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Barnabé PILLIAUDIN <barnabe.pilliaudin@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Barnabé PILLIAUDIN <117679829+BarnabePILLIAUDIN@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Ky_Dev25 <96177260+KyDev25@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Magali-D <137942699+Magali-D@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/database/readme.md, after:

# Schema

```mermaid
---
title: Airneis database model
---

classDiagram

Categories "*" <|-- "1" Products
Orders <|-- Status
Products <|-- Orders
Users <|-- Addresses
Users <|-- Orders
Orders <|-- CartsProducts
Products <|-- CartsProducts
Products <|-- ProductImages
Materials <|-- ProductsMaterials
Products <|-- ProductsMaterials

class Users {
    id increments notNull
    firstName text notNull
    lastName text notNull
    email text unique notNull
    passwordHash text notNull
    passwordSalt text notNull
    isAdmin boolean default false notNull
    isActive boolean default false notNull
}

class Categories {
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
    thumbnailUrl text notNull
    slug text unique notNull
    orderOfDisplay number notNull
}

class Products {
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
    slug unique notNull
    categoryId number notNull
    priceWithoutTaxes number notNull
    priceWithTaxes number notNull
    description text notNull
    thumbnailUrl text notNull
    outOfStock boolean default false notNull
    isHighlanderOfTheMoment boolean default false notNull
}

class ProductImages {
    id increments notNull
    productId number notNull
    imageUrl text notNull
}

class Materials{
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
}

class ProductsMaterials {
    id increments notNull
    productId number notNull
    materialId number notNull
}

class Addresses {
    id increments notNull
    userId number notNull
    address text notNull
    address2 text
    city text notNull
    state text notNull
    zipCode text notNull
    country text notNull
    firstName text notNull
    lastName text notNull
    phoneNumber text notNull
    comment text
}

class Orders {
    id increments notNull
    userId number notNull
    statusId number notNull
    shippingAddressId number notNull
    billingAddressId number notNull
    finalized_at date notNull
    isActive boolean notNull default true
}

class Status {
    id increments notNull
    name text notNull
    isOrder boolean notNull
}

class CartsProducts {
    id increments notNull
    productId number notNull
    cartId number notNull
    quantity number notNull
}

class Contact {
    id increments notNull
    senderEmail text notNull
    recipientEmail text notNull
    subject text notNull
    message text notNull
}

```

# Explanation

## Users

This class represents the user whether he is admin or not.
We ask for his email and phone number to be able to contact him for commercials offers and for updates on his orders.
The email will also be the logg in field
For more safety we the password is hashed and we have one salt per user


## Categories

Each category has a `name`, a `thumbnail` and a `slug` this slug should be the category's name in lowercase and if the category is in multiple words,each space should be replaced by a dash .
The `slug` should be unique as we will use it in the urls to identify specific `category`.
`orderOfDisplay` represents the order in which the categories will be displayed on home page as it must be configurable in back office

## Products

As for the category each product will have a slug that follows the same rules as the category's slug.
The `description` is mandatory as the risk to create confusion for the client is too high without description.
`ThumbnailUrl` is the url of the image that will be displayed on the category page.

## ProductImages

This represents the images of the product that will be displayed on product page in carousel.

## Materials

As we have to be able to filter products per material we store it into database to make the filtering easier.

## ProductsMaterials

As it's a many relation we have to create a link table between products and materials

## Orders

This table will represent both carts and orders.
The `status` will differentiate between the two.

## CartsProducts

This table links the products and the carts.
When a user add a product to his cart, we will create a new row in this table.
As it's a one to many between cart and products we have to create a link table.

## Status

The status represents the lifecycle of the cart.
The `isOrder` field says if the cart is an order or not.
If it's an order it means that it has been paid and that it will be delivered.

## Addresses

Can be both shipping or billing address.
The `comment` is optional and can be used to give more information about the address for the delivery person.
The `zipCode` is a string because some countries have letters in their zipCode.
The `isActive` field is for history purpose. When an address is updated a new row should be created in the database. 
This row should be a "clone" with the new information. This will avoid to affect the addresses used in past Orders.

# Contact

This table represents the contact form.
The content of this table will be displayed in backoffice.
The `senderEmail` represent the email of the people who write to us
The `recipientEmail` email represents the email of our company as we may send ourselves an email to keep another track of every contacts
